---
layout: post
title: "Quit"
date: 2006-05-21T18:34:00+05:30
---

Not my creation... taken from a fwd...

{% blockquote %}
One day I decided to quit...I quit my job, my relationship, my 
Spirituality... I wanted to quit my life.

I went to the woods to have one last talk with God. “God”, I said.. “Can you
give me one good reason not to quit?” His answer surprised me...
“Look around”, He said. “Do you see the fern and the bamboo?”

“Yes”, I replied.

<!--more-->

“When I planted the fern and the bamboo seeds, I took very good care of them. I
gave them light. I gave them water. The fern quickly grew from the earth. Its
brilliant green covered the floor. Yet nothing came from the bamboo seed. But I
did not quit on the bamboo. In the second year the Fern grew more vibrant and
plentiful. And again, nothing came from the bamboo seed. But I did not quit on
the bamboo.” He said.

“In year three there was still nothing from the bamboo seed. But I
would not quit. In year four, again, there was nothing from the bamboo seed. I
would not quit.” He said.

“Then in the fifth year a tiny sprout emerged from the earth. Compared to the
fern it was seemingly small and insignificant...
But just 6 months later the bamboo rose to over 100 feet tall. It had spent the
five years growing roots. Those roots made it strong and gave it what it needed
to survive. I would not give any of my creations a challenge it could not
handle.” He 
said to me.

“Did you know, my child, that all this time you have been struggling, 
you have actually been growing roots?”

“I would not quit on the bamboo. I will never quit on you.”

“Don’t compare yourself to others.” He said. “The bamboo had a 
different purpose than the fern. Yet they both make the forest beautiful.”

“Your time will come”, God said to me. “You will rise high”

“How high should I rise?” I asked.

“How high will the bamboo rise?” He asked in return.

“As high as it can?” I questioned

“Yes.” He said, “Give me glory by rising as high as you can.”

I left the forest and bring back this story. I hope these words can
help you see that God will never give up on you.

He will never give up on you!

Just Be Positive All the Time
{% endblockquote %}

Hope i could be this optimistic in life... hmm...
